.
&gt;&gt; WELCOME TO THE THURSDAY,
JULY 14TH 2022 MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD IN A
HYBRID FASHION, SOME IN PERSON,
SOME ONLINE TO PROTECT PUBLIC
WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
MEETING SIMILARLY TO AN
IN-PERSON MEETING, HOWEVER,
PLEASE BE PATIENT IF THERE ARE
TECHNICAL ISSUES, PUBLIC
COMMENT WILL BE ON TELEPHONE
TELEPHONE ONLY OR DO WE HAVE
OTHER PUBLIC COMMENT OR IN
PERSON OR IN PERSON OR VIA ZOOM
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; OR ON ZOOM WE&apos;VE GOT SEVERAL
OPTIONS FOR YOU FOR THE PUBLIC
COMMENT TODAY I&apos;M GOING TO READ
I&apos;LL READ THE NUMBERS UP FRONT
HERE FOR ANYONE WANTING TO DIAL
IN THERE WITH ME PLEASE
.
OK, SO YOU SO PUBLIC COMMENT
WILL BE ON THE ZOOM OR YOU CAN
JOIN BY PHONE.
I WILL READ THE NUMBERS BUT ON
THE THEY&apos;RE ON THE AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT ENOUGH OR SHOULD I
READ THE NUMBERS HERE?
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S READ THE NUMBERS.
OK, SO YOU CAN CALL TWO ZERO
SIX THREE THREE SEVEN NINE
SEVEN TWO THREE OR CALL TWO ONE
THREE THREE THREE EIGHT EIGHT
FOUR SEVEN SEVEN OR A TOLL FREE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
OR ANOTHER TOLL FREE NUMBER
EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT
EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE AND
THEN I&apos;LL GIVE YOU THE WEBINAR
ID WHICH YOU MIGHT NEED AFTER
YOU CALL IN THAT IS NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO.
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL OF THIS INFORMATION
IS AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA.
IT CERTAINLY IS.
OK, SO THAT&apos;S THAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO I GUESS WE&apos;LL DO A
ROLL CALL NOW.
COMMISSIONER EVERSON,
COMMISSIONER HERE COMMISSIONER
WHITE ER COMMISSIONER FOR US
COMMISSIONER FORDER YOUR
COMMISSIONER WILLIS HERE
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; GREAT.
OK, WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA SEEING NO CHANGES WILL
APPROVE IT AND MOVE ON TO THE
PART D PUBLIC COMMENTARY NOW
THIS IS PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
IT&apos;S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
PERSON TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; THESE ISSUES ARE ISSUES THAT
ARE NOT LISTED AS PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
SO ANY ISSUES THAT YOU&apos;D LIKE
TO RAISE THAT ARE NOT ON THE
AGENDA NOW IS THE TIME.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;LL FIND OUT IF WE HAVE
ANY ONE WISHING TO SPEAK.
I DO HAVE ONE CALLER WHO&apos;S
RAISED HIS HAND.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF HE WANTS TO
SPEAK IN THE PUBLIC COMMENTARY
OR SOMETHING ELSE, BUT MICHAEL
TEDLOW, I&apos;M GOING TO ALLOW YOU
TO TALK AND YOU CAN TELL US IF
YOU&apos;RE HERE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENTARY OR SOMETHING ELSE.
YEAH, I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
I WAS IN THE RIGHT MEETING.
I&apos;M THE GRANDSON OF MR ROBERT
AIDIN AND THAT IS WHAT MAKE
SURE I&apos;M WHERE I NEED TO BE.
&gt;&gt; YES, ABSOLUTELY.
WE&apos;LL BE GETTING TO THAT VERY
SHORTLY.
&gt;&gt; OK OK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANKS.
&gt;&gt; OK OK SO IS THERE ANYONE
ELSE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; NO NO OK WE WILL MOVE ON
THEN TO E UNFINISHED BUSINESS
AND THERE IS NO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS TODAY SO LET&apos;S GET
RIGHT INTO F HEARINGS AND I&apos;LL
HAND IT OVER TO STAFF TO START
WITH HEARING EF1.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GOING TO PULL UP A
POWERPOINT AND TIM BUSCAINO IS
GOING TO GIVE A PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; HE&apos;S THE CONSULTANT WHO&apos;S
BEEN WORKING ON THE HAYDEN
HOUSE STUDY COMMITTEE PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; TIM, GIVE ME ONE SECOND HERE
.
JIM YEAH.
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE WE CAN BEGIN
UNTIL WE HAVE A QUORUM OF THE
STUDY COMMITTEE AND AS FAR AS I
SEE WE ONLY HAVE ONE STUDY
COMMITTEE MEMBER WITH US RIGHT
NOW.
YOU THE QUORUM IT&apos;S FOR THE
TWELVE IT&apos;S NOT A COMMISSION
PUBLIC HEARING THOUGH.
IT&apos;S A STUDY COMMITTEE PUBLIC
HEARING PROCESS AND I DON&apos;T SEE
PATRICK HERE TONIGHT.
OH, PATRICK, I&apos;M SORRY I DIDN&apos;T
RECOGNIZE YOU BECAUSE I&apos;VE
NEVER SEEN YOU IN PERSON.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, SORRY TO PATRICK&apos;S
HERE.
&gt;&gt; JENNIFER ROSS IS ABSENT BUT
BEV WILLIS IS HERE TO TAKE
GREAT
YOU HAVE YOUR YOU KNOW
I&apos;M WORKING ON THE SLIDE SHOW
OK GO HIM GREAT.
&gt;&gt; SO SORRY IT&apos;S NOT HERE WE
GO.
THANK YOU.
OK SO I JUST BEGAN YOU&apos;VE BEEN
ADVANCED THE SLIDES WHEN WHEN
THE APPROPRIATE TIME.
SURE.
CAN YOU HEAR ME OK.
YES GREAT THANK YOU.
SO MY NAME IS TIMOTHY BUSCAINO
AND I&apos;M PRESENTING THE REPORT
FOR THE PROPOSED REIBER AND ERM
I HATE AND HOW TO STOP IT AND I
GUESS I SHOULD SAY I&apos;M
PRESENTING THE PRELIMINARY
REPORT BECAUSE THERE WILL BE A
FORTHCOMING REPORT WRITING VERY
SHORTLY AND THIS IS OF COURSE A
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO IF ANYBODY WISHES TO SHARE
YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE PROPOSED
DISTRICT, WHETHER YOU&apos;RE
SPEAKING IN FAVOR, SPEAKING
AGAINST OR JUST ASKING
QUESTIONS OR PROVIDING SOME
GENERAL COMMENTS OR THOUGHTS IF
AGAINST OR ANYTHING ELSE THERE
WILL BE AN OPPORTUNITY TO DO
THAT.
&gt;&gt; AND BEFORE I GO ANY FURTHER,
JUST ONE ITEM TO CLARIFY WHAT
EXACTLY WE MEAN WHEN WE SAY
HISTORIC
DISTRICT WHEN WE SAY
DISTRICT THAT USING THAT WORD
KIND OF MAKES IT SOUND LIKE
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT AN ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR A GROUP
OF BUILDINGS OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
BUT NO, WE&apos;RE JUST TALKING
ABOUT ONE INDIVIDUAL HOUSE.
THE ONLY REASON WE SAY WE USE
THE WORD DISTRICT IS BECAUSE
STATE LAW SPECIFIES THE
TERMINOLOGY AND STATE LAW TELLS
US THAT&apos;S WHAT WE CALL IT.
SO WE CALL IT A DISTRICT SO IT
CAN GO ON TO THE NEXT SLIDE
PLEASE.
SO THIS IS A MAP OF THE
PROPOSED DISTRICT AND IT&apos;S THE
HOUSE AT ONE TWO ZERO ONE
GARDINER AVENUE AT THE CORNER
OF WESTMINSTER PLACE.
IT&apos;S IN THE LOWER PART
NEIGHBORHOOD JUST A FEW BLOCKS
NORTHWEST OF THE INTERSECTION
PACKER AND THE STATE STREETS
AND ON TO THE NEXT SLIDE PLEASE
.
SO THE STUDY PROCESS IS WELL
UNDERWAY.
IT BEGAN ON AUGUST 2ND, 2021
WHEN THE ANNIVERSARY COUNCIL
DECIDED TO STUDY THE HOUSE AS A
PROPOSED HISTORIC DISTRICT IN
THE CITY COUNCIL APPOINTED THE
STUDY COMMITTEE WHICH IS THREE
PEOPLE.
IT IT&apos;S PATRICK PURTILL, THE
PROPERTY OWNER AND THE PERSON
THAT INITIALLY ADVOCATED AND
SUGGESTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
THAT THEY MAY CREATE THIS
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND HE IS A
MEMBER OF THE HADEN FAMILY AND
THE SON-IN-LAW OF THE HAYDON&apos;S
AND THE HUSBAND OF MY MY DAVID
AND JENNIFER ROSS A HISTORIC
ESTATE COMMISSION MEMBER WHO
BRINGS THE EXPERTIZE FROM THE
FIELD OF ARCHITECTURE AND
BEVERLY WILLIS HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION MEMBER WHO
BRINGS THE EXPERTIZE FROM THE
FIELD OF HISTORY AND MR VOTTO
HAS A BACKGROUND IN LITERATURE
AND MUSIC HIMSELF AS WELL.
SO THE JOB OF THE STUDY
COMMITTEE IS TO STUDY THE
HISTORY OF THE HOUSE TO CONDUCT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN
MAKE A RECOMMENDATION TO THE
CITY COUNCIL REGARDING PROPOSED
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
AND SO A COUPLE OF WEEKS AFTER
THIS PUBLIC HEARING STUDY
COMMITTEE MAKING THAT
RECOMMENDATION AND THEN THE
CITY COUNCIL WILL BE VOTING ON
ITS HISTORIC DISTRICT MOST
LIKELY ONE OF THOSE MEETINGS IN
AUGUST.
SO THE STUDY COMMITTEE ALSO
APPEARS TO REPORTS PLENARY
SUPPORT WHICH IS ALREADY DONE
AND A FINAL REPORT WHICH WILL
BE DONE VERY SHORTLY WHICH WILL
AND THOSE REPORTS GO INTO THE
HISTORY OF THE DISTRICT AND WHY
IT&apos;S SIGNIFICANT.
AND SO IF YOU&apos;RE CURIOUS TO
KNOW MORE, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
READ EITHER OF THOSE REPORTS.
IF YOU CAN WAIT FOR THE FINAL
REPORT, IT WILL BE MORE
THOROUGH AND MORE COMPLETE AND
CORRECT SOME OF THE ITEMS THAT
WERE MAYBE NOT SO COMPLETE IN
THE REPORT BUT BOTH WILL BE
AVAILABLE ON THE CITY WEBSITE.
I&apos;M NOT EXACTLY SURE WHERE YOU
MIGHT FIND THEM.
&gt;&gt; WHERE WOULD SOMEBODY FINAL
REPORTS THAT THEY WANTED TO
LOOK AT THEM AT W DOT A TO GO
DOT ORG EACH DC LIKE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION O THAT&apos;S
VERY EASY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
GREAT.
SO I&apos;M ON THE NEXT SLIDE.
SO THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN 1936
BUT THAT&apos;S NOT WHY WE&apos;RE
FINDING IT SIGNIFICANT OTHER
SIGNIFICANCE COMES FROM A
LITTLE LATER PERIOD IS
MITIGANTS WOULD BE 1960 AND
1980 AND IT IS SIGNIFICANT IS
THE HOME OF ROBERT HAYDEN AND
FOR A TIME AND THEIR DAUGHTER
MIGHT THERE AS WELL MR. AND
MRS. HAYDEN WERE BOTH EDUCATORS
WHO LIVED IN ANN CARVER IN THE
1940S AND AFTER SOME TIME
LIVING ELSEWHERE AND TRAVELING
AND SUCH THEY RETURNED TO ANN
ARBOR IN 1969 WHEN MR. HAYDEN
WAS OFFERED A POSITION
PROFESSOR AT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND MR. HAYDEN WAS
A GREAT AMERICAN POET.
HE WAS AMONG MANY OTHER HONORS
.
HE WAS CONSULTED IN POETRY TO
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS FROM
1976 1978 AND THAT POSITION IS
NOW KNOWN AS THE POET LAUREATE
OF THE UNITED STATES AND THAT
IS REALLY THE HIGHEST HONOR A
POET CAN GET IN THE UNITED
STATES.
THAT WAS PERHAPS THE MOST
NOTEWORTHY OF THE GREAT MANY
HONORS HE ATTAINED DURING HIS
LIFETIME.
HE PUBLISHED EXTENSIVELY.
HE TRAVELED HE WAS IN RESIDENCE
QUITE A FEW DIFFERENT
INSTITUTIONS OVER THE YEARS HE
WAS RECOGNIZED WITH QUITE A
NUMBER OF SERIOUS HONORS AND
AWARDS OVER HIS CAREER.
HE WAS ALSO THE FIRST BLACK
FACULTY IN HIS DEPARTMENT.
YOU CAN SEE ALSO NOTEWORTHY
ACCOMPLISHMENT MRS. HAYDEN WAS
A PIANIST WHO TAUGHT MUSIC AND
DANCE CLASSICAL PIANIST AND SHE
TRAVELED IN ORDER TO DO SO.
SHE WAS QUITE SUCCESSFUL IN HER
CAREER AS AN EDUCATOR.
SHE WAS SUPERINTENDENT
EDUCATION IN A NUMBER OF PLACES
SO SHE WAS SUCCESSFUL IN HER
CAREER AS WELL.
SHE WAS ALSO VERY ACTIVE IN THE
LOCAL AND ALSO INTERNATIONAL
HIV-AIDS COMMUNITY.
SHE PLAYED A LEADERSHIP ROLE IN
THAT COMMUNITY AND ESPECIALLY
SHE TOOK ON AN EVEN MORE
EXTENSIVE ROLE LATER IN LIFE
AFTER MR. HAYDEN PASSED.
SO I WANT TO EMPHASIZE WHEN
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE IN THIS HOUSE, IT
WAS IT WAS MORE THAN JUST IT
WASN&apos;T A MERE RESIDENCE.
BOTH OF THESE INDIVIDUALS THEY
REALLY PRACTICED THEIR ARTS AT
THE HOUSE.
MR. HAYDEN IN PARTICULAR, HE
WROTE MUCH OF HIS POETRY FROM
THAT TIME PERIOD IN HIS
UPSTAIRS OFFICE.
THERE REALLY WAS A PLACE FOR
THOSE CREATIVE ENERGIES AND ALL
OF THAT WORK REALLY HAPPENED.
SO THIS WAS A YOU KNOW, YOU CAN
REALLY GET THAT CREATIVE.
YOU REALLY HAPPENED AT THAT
HOUSE.
SO HE HAD TO GO THROUGH THE
NEXT FEW I A FEW PHOTOS OF THE
PROPOSED DISTRICT JUST TO GIVE
A SENSE OF WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
THAT&apos;S THE HOUSE STILL MUCH IN
THE SAME CONDITION AS IT WAS
DURING THAT PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
SO I JUST GO THROUGH THE NEXT
COUPLE OF SLIDES THESE ARE THE
NEXT ONE THAT&apos;S THE WEST SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO JUST TO EXPLAIN FOR
OUR AUDIENCE WHAT HAPPENS
SHOULD THE CITY COUNCIL CHOOSE
TO MAKE THIS A HISTORIC
DISTRICT, THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSIONER WILL THEN BECOME
INVOLVED SO WITH THE ENTIRE
CITY COUNCIL CHOOSES TO CREATE
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT AS
PROPOSED.
IT WILL THEN BECOME
ADMINISTERED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION AND WHAT
THAT MEANS IS FROM THIS POINT
FORWARD ARE FROM NOT THIS POINT
BUT THE POINT AT WHICH THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT IS CREATED IN
THAT POINT FORWARD ANY WORK
DONE AFFECTING THE APPEARANCE
OF THE BUILDING OR ITS
LANDSCAPING HAS TO GET APPROVED
BY HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
SO THERE ARE TWO WAYS THAT
HISTORIC DISTRICT MISSION CAN
APPROVE WORK AND ONE IS WITH A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
AND THAT BASICALLY MEANS THAT
WORK HAS TO MEET THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
PRESERVATION OR REHABILITATION
AND SO ON AND THAT EFFECTIVELY
MEANS IN LAYPERSON&apos;S TERMS IS
KIND OF AN OVERSIMPLIFICATION
BUT IN LAYPERSON&apos;S TERMS THAT
MEANS THAT THE WORK DONE HAS TO
BE RESPECTFUL OF THE HISTORIC
APPEARANCE AND CHARACTER
BUILDING AND THIS IS A
SIMPLIFICATION IN LAYPERSON&apos;S
TERMS BUT MOST OF THAT IN
HISTORIC DISTRICT MOST THE WORK
IS APPROVED IS BECAUSE OF THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
AND SO THE WORK IS FOUND TO BE
RESPECTFUL TO THE APPEARANCE
AND CHARACTER OF WILL ALSO WORK
ON HISTORIC DISTRICT AND GET
APPROVED WITH A NOTICE TO
PROCEED AND THAT IS ONE
HISTORIC DISTRICT MISSION FINDS
THAT THE WORK MIGHT BE
NECESSARY TO CORRECT THE SAFETY
ISSUE IF THE HOUSE IS STANDING
IN THE WAY OF SOME KIND
OF MAJOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM THAT&apos;S GOING TO BENEFIT
OR IN THE CASE OF SOME KIND
OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP TO THE
OWNER THAT CAN&apos;T BE OVERCOME IN
ANY OTHER WAY OR SOME KIND
OF MAJOR COMPETING COMMUNITY
INTEREST THAT IT STATE AT
STAKE.
SO FOR THOSE REASONS THE
COMMISSION CAN ISSUE NOTICE TO
PROCEED ALSO AND OF COURSE THEY
STARTED TO COMMISSION THEY WILL
DENY IF IT DOESN&apos;T MEET ANY
OF THESE CRITERIA AS WELL.
SO THAT OFTEN HAPPENS AS WELL.
SO THAT&apos;S IT FOR MY WORDS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THE COMMITTEE
MEMBERS HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD
BUT I CAN OR TELL IS ANYTHING
TO ADD BUT I CAN HAND IT OVER
TO THEM AND THEN WE CAN GET ON
WITH OUR PUBLIC HEARING.
PATRICK, WOULD YOU LIKE TO SAY
ANYTHING NOW WOULD BE A GREAT
TIME IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO BUT YOU
DON&apos;T HAVE TO IF YOU DON&apos;T WANT
TO.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T WANT TO FORGET YOUR
GOOD BEV ANYTHING.
SURE.
OK, STUDY COMMITTEE IS GOOD
WITH THIS SO WHY DON&apos;T WE GO
AHEAD AND DAVE, CAN YOU OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND LET&apos;S
TAKE THE FOLKS IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS FIRST IF THERE ARE AND
THEN I&apos;LL CALL ON THE CALLERS
THAT ARE ON ZOOMER.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO NOW WE&apos;LL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR HEARING EF1
THE ROBERT AND IRMA HADEN HOUSE
12 ONE GARDNER AVE. STUDY
COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; SO IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT
HERE THAT WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
PUBLIC COMMENT?
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM AND
I DON&apos;T SEE ANYONE RUNNING UP
TO THE PODIUM HERE DESPITE A
FEW PEOPLE IN THE AUDIENCE SO
LET&apos;S GO TO THE ZUN.
ALL RIGHT.
LET&apos;S GO FIRST WITH MICHAEL
TIDDLER MICHAEL, IF YOU WOULD
ON MUTE YOURSELF AND STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; YES, MA&apos;AM.
MY NAME IS MICHAEL AMON TABLAS
MEUNIRE.
MY ADDRESS IS EIGHT WANT TO
HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN OR A ONE ZERO THREE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD WITH ANYTHING YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO SHARE.
I JUST WOULD LIKE TO ADD JUST
MOVING FORWARD WITH THIS I GO
DEFINITELY THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT MY MOM AND
DAD DEFINITELY WOULD WOULD
WANT.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW MY FATHER MR. TYLO
THERE TO KEEP THAT INTEGRITY IN
THE LEGACY OF MY BOTH MY
GRANDFATHER AND GRANDMOTHER.
I THINK IT&apos;S VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT THAT THEY HAVE A
PLACE THAT&apos;S DEDICATED OR POOR
FOR ALL THE STUFF THAT THEY&apos;VE
ACHIEVED AND CONTRIBUTED TO THE
COMMUNITY AND TO THE PROFESSION
AS WELL.
OUTGOING CITIZENS WITH GREAT,
GREAT MANY TALENTS AND I&apos;M
PRETTY SURE EVERYBODY IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WELL AGREE WITH
ME THAT THEY WERE YOU KNOW, THE
HADEN FAMILY WAS DEFINITELY ONE
THAT WAS INVOLVED DEFINITELY
THE COMMUNITY AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WELL, YOU KNOW,
AND ALL THE
ACHIEVEMENTS LIKE
THIS THEY HAVE ACCOMPLISHED.
I&apos;M REALLY PLEASED THAT THIS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE AND FOR
PEOPLE TO COME AND SEE AND
LEARN FROM, YOU KNOW, MY MY
GRANDPARENTS I CALL IT LEGACY
BUT I FEEL VERY, VERY, VERY
PLEASED AND VERY THANKFUL THAT
THIS IS EVEN IN CONVERSATION
AND HOPEFULLY SOMETHING THAT
WILL BE PERMANENT.
AND I&apos;M DEFINITELY APPROVE
OF THIS NOT JUST BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE MY FAMILY BUT I JUST
THINK IT&apos;S DEFINITELY SOMETHING
THAT NEEDS TO THAT THAT CAN BE
EDUCATIONAL WISE.
THIS ALL TOGETHER IS SOMETHING
THAT THAT&apos;S HISTORICAL AND
EVERYBODY DOES BENEFIT FROM
THAT AND I&apos;M DEFINITELY VERY
HAPPY TO BE A PART OF THIS BUT
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE TO
SHARE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING DOWN THE LIST LET&apos;S GO
TO THAT LET&apos;S GO TO KEMBA
BRANAN
KEMBA I THINK YOU&apos;RE
UNMUTED IF YOU COULD GIVE US
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS PLEASE
I&apos;M NOT SEEING ON THIS JUNE SHE
HAS PERMISSION TO TALK IT&apos;S NOT
POPPING UP ON SCREEN OVER HERE.
&gt;&gt; DOES IT MATTER.
DOES IT.
OH YOU KNOW I COULD SEE IT ON
YOUR SCREEN BUT I CAN&apos;T SEE
KEMBA ON MERITS OF THERE IT IS
THAT&apos;S TRUE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT KEMBA IF YOU CAN
HEAR US WE CAN&apos;T HEAR YOU I&apos;M
GOING TO PUT YOU BACK IN THE
WAITING ROOM FOR A MINUTE
AND
WE&apos;RE GOING TO TRY AGAIN
OK
YEAH SHE&apos;S NOT MUTED SORRY
KEMBA WE CAN&apos;T HEAR YOU YOU
COULD TRY TO CALL IN INSTEAD IF
YOU LIKE THE NUMBER IS EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
.
ALL RIGHT KEMBA SORRY I PUT YOU
BACK IN THE WAITING ROOM WE&apos;RE
GOING TO MOVE ON TO DANIEL
LEVIN
HI THERE YOU CAN HEAR ME
SO I AM DAN LEVIN I LIVE AT
FIFTEEN ZERO EIGHT WESTMINSTER
IN LOGAN&apos;S PARK.
UH IS VERY BRIEF BECAUSE I HAVE
VERY LITTLE TO ADD FROM THE
NICE PRELIMINARY REPORT HE SAID
UH THE DOMICILES OF NOBEL
LAUREATE DON&apos;T GROW ON TREES
EVEN IN ANN ARBOR IN A DAY.
IN MY OPINION THAT&apos;S A SINGULAR
HONOR AND PRIVILEGE TO HAVE A
RECOGNITION BY THE CITY OF THIS
LANDMARK HOUSE.
AND I JUST WANT TO GIVE MY
COMPLETE FULL THROATED ADVOCACY
AND APPROVAL FOR THIS MEASURE
AND HAVE THAT REGISTERED.
THANK YOU
.
IF ANYONE ELSE IS IN THE ROOM
AND WOULD LIKE TO TALK BESIDES
KEMBREW, I&apos;M STILL WORKING TO
PLEASE HIT THE RAISE YOUR HAND
BUTTON SO THEY KNOW THAT YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
.
OK KEMBA THIS LOOKS DIFFERENT.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU REALLY SEE HEY THERE
YOU ARE GREAT.
&gt;&gt; OH GREAT SORRY ABOUT THAT I
KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON.
I APPRECIATE YOUR VISION AND
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS KEMBA BRADEN AND I&apos;M
AN ARCHITECT AND HISTORIC
PRESERVATIONISTS LOOKING AT
WHAT HAPPENED IN ANN ARBOR AND
I&apos;M ALSO CHAIR OF THE MICHIGAN
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION
REVIEW BOARD AND IN THE YEARS
THAT I&apos;VE WORKED IN THE FIELD
OF PRESERVATION I&apos;VE NOTICED A
REAL WELCOME CHANGE IN THE TYPE
THAT WE&apos;VE COME TO SEE IS WORTH
PRESERVING THE STORY ABOUT
PAYTON BECAME THE NATION&apos;S
FIRST BLACK.
IT WAS A REALLY IMPORTANT STORY
FOR THIS COMMUNITY THAT&apos;S WORTH
HONORING AND COMMEMORATING.
I ALSO HAVE A PERSONAL
CONNECTION WITH FORMER I&apos;M A
MEMBER OF THE HIGH COMMUNITY
AND I SPENT COUNTLESS HOURS
ENJOYING FAN FELLOWSHIP AND A
LOT OF HATE AT HOME WITH HIS
DAUGHTER AND A LOT OF MY
PARENTS WERE ALSO CLOSE
PERSONAL FRIENDS OF MINE AND
SHARED HIS LOVE FOR ME LIKE YOU
GREW UP HEARING THE POEMS ABOUT
THE DINNER TABLE AND I NEVER
CEASE TO BE AMAZED HOW
BEAUTIFULLY HE AND I WERE HIS
RELIGIOUS FAITH THAT HIS
HUMANITY THAT FOR ALL THOSE
REASONS AND MORE THE HAYDEN
HOUSE IS VERY.
&gt;&gt; THANK THANK YOU
.
MORE WAITING.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
GOING ONCE IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEAK THIS PUBLIC HEARING AND
YOU&apos;RE IN THE ROOM, PLEASE
RAISE YOUR HAND OTHERWISE WE
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
IN A MOMENT.
OK, I THINK NO ONE ELSE.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO NOW WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR HEARING
EVERYONE AND WE WILL MOVE ON TO
I GUESS WHAT&apos;S THIS COULD I
JUST ADD ONE MORE THING ON
THIS?
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
I WANTED TO LET TIM AND ALL
OF THE STUDY COMMITTEE MEMBERS
KNOW THAT WE ALSO RECEIVED
THREE LETTERS OF SUPPORT.
ONE WAS FROM OUR NEXT DOOR
NEIGHBOR.
ONE WAS FROM JUNE THOMAS AND
ONE WAS FROM THE BAHAI
COMMUNITY, THE MULTI-STATE
ORGANIZATION AND THEY ARE ALL
EXTREMELY SUPPORTIVE.
THOSE WILL BE SENT TO THE STUDY
COMMITTEE TOMORROW THAT YOU
GUYS ALL HAVE THEM AND ALSO
TRANSMITTED TO CITY COUNCIL
WHEN THE REPORT GOES TO THEM IN
A COUPLE OF WEEKS.
SO THANK YOU ALL FOR COMING OUT
AND SPEAKING AND JOINING US FOR
THIS PUBLIC HEARING AND WE
APPRECIATE YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IT&apos;S ALWAYS GOOD FOR THE
COMMISSIONERS TO HEAR FROM THE
PUBLIC ON THESE HEARINGS SO WE
DO REALLY APPRECIATE IT AND
TAKE IT ALL INTO CONSIDERATION.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
SO I ASSUME WE DON&apos;T HAVE A
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR THIS
BECAUSE NO AND THERE&apos;S NO VOTE
ON THIS.
IT WAS MERELY A PUBLIC HEARING
SO SO WE CAN WRAP IT UP.
&gt;&gt; SHOULD WE HAVE ANY IS THERE
ANY DISCUSSION BEFORE WE WRAP
UP OR OK, LET&apos;S LET&apos;S WRAP IT
UP.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I THOUGHT
THE THE REPORT WAS VERY CLEAR.
IT WAS VERY PERSUASIVE AND AND
SO CONGRATULATIONS TO EVERYONE
WHO WORKED ON THE REPORT.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS VERY WELL DONE.
OK, SO WE WILL MOVE ON THAT
WELL LET&apos;S JUST GET A WHAT WILL
HAPPEN NEXT.
CAN WE JUST GET A QUICK SUMMARY
FOR HAYDEN?
YEAH.
HOUSE SO WE&apos;VE HEARD IT NOW AND
THEN IT SOUNDS LIKE IT&apos;S GOING
TO CITY COUNCIL BUT CAN YOU
GIVE US A YEAH.
&gt;&gt; THE STUDY COMMITTEE WILL
MEET ONCE MORE AT THE END
OF THE MONTH AND THEN IF THEY
APPROVE THE FINAL REPORT THEN
IT WILL BE TRANSMITTED TO CITY
COUNCIL.
IT WILL ALSO BE DISTRIBUTED TO
LOTS OF OTHER ORGANIZATIONS IN
THE STATE FOR THEIR REVIEW
OTHER CITY BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS AND AFTER A CERTAIN
AMOUNT OF TIME IT WILL ACTUALLY
I THINK WE ALREADY DISTRIBUTE
IT DURING THE DRAFT PHASE BUT
WE WILL SEND OUT THE FINAL COPY
TO THEM ANYWAY AND CITY COUNCIL
HAS I BELIEVE UP TO A YEAR TO
TAKE ACTION.
WE HOPE THEY DON&apos;T TAKE A YEAR
TO TAKE ACTION BUT THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S UP TO THEM.
SO I&apos;LL REPORT BACK TO THE HGC
AND PUT SOME UPDATES ON A TWO
GARGASH DC AS THEY COME ALONG.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANOTHER QUESTION HOW MANY
OF THESE DISTRICTS BASED ON YOU
KNOW, INDIVIDUAL MERITS OF OF
PEOPLE THAT HAVE LIVED IN THIS
CITY DO WE HAVE ABOUT HOW MUCH
OR DO WE HAVE ANY COBBLESTONED
FARM IS A SINGLE RESOURCE
DISTRICT AND THE NORTHERN
BREWERY I BELIEVE IS A SINGLE
RESOURCE DISTRICT UP ON JONES
DRIVE.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
OK, THANK YOU.
WHAT A GREAT OPPORTUNITY.
&gt;&gt; OK, LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO HEARING
F2 THAT IS TWO TWENTY ONE EIGHT
REAR DECK
ONE SECOND THERE
.
OOPS SORRY
APOLOGIZE.
MY COMPUTER&apos;S VERY SLOW TODAY.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT DUE TO ONE ONE
EIGHT THREE THERE&apos;S IN
OVERSIGHT HISTORIC DISTRICT
THERE&apos;S TWO STORY SIDE GABAL
HOUSE WAS FIRST OCCUPIED IN
1920 BY AUTOPSY HACK.
HIS WIFE EMMA WAS A MEAT
CUTTER.
MR. HAAK THE MEAT CUTTER LIKE
AT FIRST WASHINGTON MARKET AND
THEN BLACK MARKET THE HACKS
LIVED IN THE HOUSE UNTIL AT
LEAST NINETEEN SIXTY.
THE HOUSE FEATURES A NEARLY
FULL WITH FRONT PORCH SHINGLE
CLADDING ON THE UPPER FLOORS
WITH VINYL BELOW SHALABY WINDOW
ON THE FIRST FLOOR S AND A
UNIQUE GAMBRIL DORMER FACING
THE STREET WHICH YOU COULD SEE
IN THIS PHOTO HERE.
IT&apos;S ON THE EAST SIDE OF EIGHTH
STREET SOUTH OF WEST WASHINGTON
.
&gt;&gt; THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A BY
LEVEL REAR DECK BETWEEN SIX AND
EIGHT AND A HALF FEET ABOVE
GRADE MADE OF COMPOSITE WOOD
WITH AN ALUMINUM GUARDRAIL.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS A PHOTO LOOKING DOWN
THE DRIVEWAY.
THE DECK WOULD START AT THE END
OF THE DRIVEWAY WHICH I&apos;LL SHOW
YOU ANOTHER PICTURE OF IN A
SECOND AND RUN BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THIS LITTLE STORAGE
SHED THAT&apos;S HERE.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE&apos;S LOOKING BACK TOWARD THE
STREET PICTURE A DECK AT
DRIVEWAY LEVEL AND IT WOULD
SORT OF FOLLOW THE SIDE OF A
SHED HERE AND GO ALL THE WAY TO
THE HOUSE ON THIS SIDE EFFECT
AND EXTEND OUT A LITTLE BIT
OVER THE LAWN EFFECTIVELY
MAKING THIS NO GREAT CHANGE
FROM THE DRIVEWAY.
THERE&apos;S ALSO A SMALL PROPOSED
PLATFORM ON THIS SIDE FOR
STORAGE OF RECYCLING OR TRASH
OR COMPOST CONTAINERS.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
THE DECK THIS IS THE AREA THAT
I JUST SHOWED YOU.
THERE WILL BE STAIRS GOING UP
AT AN ANGLE HERE TO A DECK THAT
WOULD SPAN THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE IT&apos;S THIS IS A
LITTLE BUMP OUT HERE SO IT
WOULD IT WOULD FILL IN THE
INSIDE HERE AND IT WOULDN&apos;T
EXTEND BEYOND EITHER SIDE WALL
OF THE HOUSE.
BUT YOU CAN SEE WHERE THIS ROPE
IS.
THEY LAID IT OUT TO HELP YOU
GET A SENSE OF HOW DEEP THE
DECK IS.
IT&apos;S NOT A HUGE SO HERE WE ARE
LOOKING HERE&apos;S THE DOOR HERE ON
THE SIDE.
THIS PART IS NARROWER JUST TO
GET YOU FROM THE DOOR TO THE
LARGER PART OF THE DECK AND
DOWN THE STAIRS.
THIS DRAWING IS IN YOUR PACKET.
YOU CAN SEE IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
GRAINY HERE BUT THE DECK WOULD
GO HERE AND ACROSS THE BACK AND
FILL IT THE NOTCH BACK THERE.
HERE&apos;S MY FAVORITE DRAWING
SHOWING YOU KNOW WHERE IT WOULD
BE.
THE STAIRS ARE NOT ON HERE TO
SCALE SO WE HAD A DISCUSSION
ABOUT THAT AT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND I TALKED TO THE
HOMEOWNER ABOUT IT AND THERE&apos;S
A THERE&apos;S A GOOD EXAMPLE OF A
PHOTO.
BUT FIRST LET ME SHOW YOU THIS
THIS PLAN.
SO THIS IS THE PART ON THE LEFT
THAT&apos;S DEEPER.
THE DOOR IS SOMEWHERE RIGHT IN
HERE INTO THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
AND THIS IS THE LOWER DECK.
SO IN BETWEEN HERE IT MAY BE
FROM THIS YELLOW TO THAT YELLOW
LINE, THESE ARE STEPS GOING
DOWN TO THE LOWER BACK AND THIS
IS THAT PART BETWEEN THE SHED
AND THE HOUSE.
I WAS HAVING A LITTLE BIT
OF TROUBLE ENVISIONING WHAT
UPSTAIRS WOULD LOOK LIKE.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;LL SHOW YOU A PHOTO
OF THAT IN A SECOND.
THE GUARDRAIL IS NOT A WOOD
GUARDRAIL.
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING AN ALUMINUM
WITH THESE LITTLE CAPS ON THE
TOP AND THE THE DECKING WOULD
BE COMPOSITE DECKING SINCE THIS
IS ENTIRELY IN THE BACK AND
THIS DESIGN IS VERY SIMPLE
UNTRADITIONAL STAFF FEELS THAT
THAT IS AN APPROPRIATE DESIGN
EVEN THOUGH IT&apos;S NOT WHAT I
THINK IT&apos;S OK.
AND THIS IS A PHOTO FROM I
THINK THE SEVENTIES OF THE
PREVIOUS THERE USED TO BE A
DECK IN THE SAME PLACE AND
THESE WERE THE STAIRS THAT WENT
UP.
THERE WON&apos;T BE AS MANY STAIRS
BECAUSE THIS THERE&apos;S GOING TO
BE A DECK HERE THAT&apos;S GOING TO
BE, YOU KNOW, A COUPLE OF FEET
TALLER.
SO IT WON&apos;T EVEN LOOK AS
SIGNIFICANT AS THIS.
BUT I ASKED THE HOMEOWNER FOR A
PICTURE JUST SO WE COULD GIVE
YOU AN IDEA OF THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
THE MOST STEPS THAT YOU COULD
SEE.
AND LIKE I SAID, I THINK THIS
IS GOING TO BE A LITTLE BIT
LESS SO SECRETARY INTERIOR
STANDARDS AT BEST APPLY OUR
NUMBERS NINE AND TEN NINE AS
NEW ADDITIONS, EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT DESTROY
HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR AS
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION OF HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THAT&apos;S VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN A
SETTING FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL AND
PATIOS IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL A DECK IN THE REAR
OF THE PROPERTY THAT IS
SUBORDINATE IN PROPORTION TO
THE BUILDING INSTALLING
RAILINGS MADE OF WOOD IS ALSO
APPROPRIATE CUSTOM REALLY
DESIGNED TO BE REVIEWED ON A
CASE BY CASE BASIS.
ALL RIGHT, LET ME GO BACK UP
HERE VERY SLOWLY.
YEAH, COME ON.
YOU CAN DO IT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE&apos;LL JUST STOP THERE.
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THIS THIS APPLICATION.
THE WORK IS INCONSPICUOUS.
IT DOESN&apos;T IMPACT ANY CHARACTER
OF ANY FEATURES.
IT&apos;S REPLACING A PREVIOUS DECK
ATTACHED TO THE HOUSE IN THE
SAME WAY IN THE SAME PLACE AND
IT&apos;S VISUALLY COMPATIBLE THE
HOUSE AND SURROUNDING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS.
THAT&apos;S IT FOR ME.
SO LET ME LET ME GET THE
PETITIONER IN HERE.
&gt;&gt; ARE WE GOING TO DO THE THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE HERE?
YEAH.
OK, SO LET&apos;S SEE WHAT THE
COMMISSIONER PORTER AND THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE AND OK
COMMISSIONER BEVERLY, LET&apos;S
HEAR THE STAFF OF THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
IT&apos;S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD,
NOT MUCH MORE NOTHING NEW TO
ADD.
IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, THE ONLY THING
WILL BE VISIBLE FROM THE RIGHT
AWAY IS A FEW STEPS AND IT WILL
HAVE NO IMPACT ON THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER HISTORIC FEATURES.
OK, I AGREE.
&gt;&gt; OK, VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; SO THEN LET&apos;S OK SO WOULD
THE APPLICANT IS THE APPLICANT
HERE CHRISTESEN ON.
&gt;&gt; OK SO THEN WOULD YOU PLEASE
YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR
VIDEO IF POSSIBLE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
AND PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND YOU
NOW HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
EITHER ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT
OR JUST COMMENT IN GENERAL.
HI I&apos;M CHRIS HEVERLY TWO TWO
ONE EIGHT THREE AND OUR MACHINE
IN AND NO I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADD OK COMMISSIONERS ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
OH OK.
NONE.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
I&apos;LL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
RIGHT NOW FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
ANYONE TO SPEAK ON THIS ITEM.
YOU&apos;VE GOT UP TO THREE MINUTES
.
IS THERE ANYONE OUT THERE?
&gt;&gt; NO NO ONE IS RAISED THEIR
HAND.
NO COMMENTS.
OK, SO NOW I&apos;LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND I&apos;LL ASK IF
THERE&apos;S ANY COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
COMMISSIONER FOR IT.
HEY, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION TWO TO ONE 8TH
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT A BYE
LOVE OVER YOUR DESK WITH A
SECTION SIX BY SIX AND EIGHT BY
TWO EIGHT BY SIX ABOVE GRADE
OVERALL PLACEMENT MADE
OF COMPOSITE WOOD WITH AN
ALUMINUM GUARDRAIL AND A
SECTION OF COMPOSITE WOOD
DRIVEWAY GRADE THE WORK IS
PROPOSED AS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
DESKS AND PATIOS AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS NINE AND TEN IN THE
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING CIRCA OK
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
&gt;&gt; SO IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ON THE MOTION HERE FROM ANY
COMMISSIONERS NOW?
&gt;&gt; OK, SEEING NO I I GUESS I&apos;M
A LITTLE CONCERNED MAYBE ABOUT
THE STAIRS BUT I THINK THAT
THEY&apos;LL WORK THEMSELVES OUT.
THE ONLY CONCERN IS THAT I&apos;M
JUST NOT SEEING THE STAIRS
SHOWN BUT MAYBE THEY ARE
SHOWING STAFF.
&gt;&gt; DID I HAVE A QUESTION IF ON
THAT PLAN THAT WE SAW ARE
STAIRS SHOWN ON THAT PLAN THERE
WAS SOME YELLOW LINES IF YOU
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT&apos;S OK.
I THINK IT JUST SHOWS SOME
STAIRS COMING DOWN THE PHOTO
THAT YOU SEE OF THE STAIRS
, THE
PREVIOUS STAIRS THERE ACTUALLY
ARE YOU CAN SEE THOSE BETTER
THAN YOU WILL OURS.
I WILL SET BACK EVEN FURTHER.
&gt;&gt; OK OK.
I GUESS JUST JUST NOT KNOWING
HOW MANY STAIRS THERE WERE BUT
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING
FOUR.
YES THREE FOUR MORE THAN THAT
BUT I UNDERSTAND THEY&apos;LL BE
BEHIND THE HOUSE OK SO LET&apos;S
LET&apos;S GO TO A VOTE NOW.
&gt;&gt; YES.
ARE THERE WE&apos;VE GOT ONE YES BUT
WE HAVEN&apos;T ASKED FOR YET ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THIS MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANKS CHRIS.
THANKS.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO NOW WE ARE GOING TO
MOVE ON TO IS IT EF THREE ONE
OH NINE EAST AND ST. JO YOU ONE
SECOND HERE.
OK
, CHRIS DOESN&apos;T WANT TO STAY
IN THE MEETING WITH US ALL
NIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WHY NOT?
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
OH NO YOU&apos;RE FINE.
HERE WE GO.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT UP ONE NINE ONE NINETEEN
EAST AND ST. FOLLOWING A FIRE
THAT LEVELED ITS PREDECESSOR
THE EIGHTEEN SEVENTY ONE HOEBEN
BLOCK WAS CONSTRUCTED IN THE
ITALIANATE STYLE
.
THIS THREE STOREY BRICK
COMMERCIAL I KNOW THERE&apos;S TWO
OF ME HERE WE GO
THINKING ABOUT
IT THAT&apos;S SO SLOW TODAY
.
ALL RIGHT.
OH MAN.
HERE WE ARE THESE SIX THREE
STOREY BRICK COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS FEATURE FOR OVER FOUR
WINDOWS WITH ROUND AND SHALLOW
SEGMENTED ARCHES ON THE SECOND
THIRD FLOOR CRUMBLING RUNS
ACROSS FIVE OF THE SIX
BUILDINGS BELOW THE MISSING
CORNICE.
THE FIRST FLOOR HAS A LARGE
STOREFRONT WINDOWS WITH
FLANKING COLUMNS.
THIS BLOCK WAS KNOWN FOR ITS
SALOON&apos;S AS EARLY AS THE
EIGHTEEN NINETIES IN THE 1960S
AND 70S.
IT WAS HOME TO CLINT&apos;S CLUB A
POOL HALL AND A BARBERSHOP
WHICH WERE FREQUENTED BY THE
AREA&apos;S BLACK COMMUNITY BY
NINETEEN SEVENTY SEVEN THE
BLOCK OF BUILDINGS WAS
UNOCCUPIED IN NINETEEN SEVENTY
PETER BELASCO&apos;S OPENED HIS LAW
FIRM IN ONE BUILDING AND BEGAN
RENOVATING THE REST THE BLOCK.
HIS FAMILY CONTINUES AS THE
BLOCK OWNERS TO THIS DAY THIS
IS ON THE NORTH SIDE OF EAST
AND STREET BETWEEN NORTH MAIN
STREET AND NORTH FOURTH AVENUE.
&gt;&gt; THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO REPLACE ALL OF THE
NON HISTORIC WOOD WINDOWS
SASHES ON THE REAR ELEVATION
OF A BUILDING, REPLACE THEM
WITH ALUMINUM CLAD WOOD SASH
PACKS IN THE SAME OPENINGS.
SO THIS IS THE BACK OF THE
BUILDING.
THE REQUEST IS REALLY ALL
OF THE WINDOWS ON THE SECOND
THIRD FLOOR.
THEY ARE CURRENTLY FOR OVER
FOUR OR YEAH FOUR BEFORE WOOD
WINDOWS.
LIKE I SAID THEY WERE INSTALLED
IN THE SEVENTIES INCREMENTALLY
.
THEY DON&apos;T ALL MATCH.
THERE&apos;S A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
STYLES BUT THEY&apos;RE ALL SIMILAR
AND THE FAMILY WOULD PREFER YOU
CAN SEE HOW SOME OF THE DOORS
SOME OF THE WINDOW OPENINGS
WERE MADE INTO DOORS AND HAVE
BALCONIES.
IT&apos;S ALL VERY LOVELY AND TIDY
IN THE BACK BUT MR BLOCKHOUSE
WOULD PREFER TO INSTALL CLOUD
WINDOWS INSTEAD OF ALL WOOD
WINDOWS FOR MAINTENANCE AND
UPKEEP AND LONGEVITY PURPOSES.
THERE ARE PICTURES PROVIDED
FROM THE INTERIOR.
YOU CAN SEE THE GEM LINERS FROM
THE NEW WING OF THE NEW WINDOWS
THAT ARE CURRENTLY THERE AND
THEY&apos;RE VERY MODERN LOOKING THE
PROPOSALS TO USE JELD-WEN CLOUD
FOR OVER FOUR WINDOWS.
THESE ARE NOT PROPORTIONED
RIGHT BUT IT IS JUST A SASH
REPLACEMENT.
THEY&apos;RE USING SUSPECTS AND
LEAVING MOST EVERYTHING IN
PLACE WHICH IS A GREAT APPROACH
TO THIS.
THERE IS A PROFILE AND WINDOW
INFORMATION WITH THE
APPLICATION NUMBERS TWO, FIVE,
NINE AND TEN OF THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS BEST
APPLY.
NUMBER TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED.
THE REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURE SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES OR
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE ALREADY READ TWO
NUMBERS NINE AND TEN TONIGHT
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS
BEING REPLACED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO REPLACE
AN ENTIRE WINDOW THAT&apos;S TOO
DETERIORATED TO REPAIR USING
THE SAME FASHION PAINT
CONFIGURATION AND OTHER DESIGN
DETAILS.
WE DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE WINDOWS
THAT WERE TAKEN OUT IN THE 70S
LOOK LIKE SO WE DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT
THE ORIGINAL WINDOWS WERE IF
USING THE SAME KIND OF MATERIAL
IS NOT TECHNICALLY OR
ECONOMICALLY FEASIBLE WHEN
REPLACING WINDOWS DETERIORATED
BEYOND REPAIR THEN A COMPATIBLE
SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL MAY BE
CONSIDERED FROM THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR MISSING FEATURES
.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL NEW WINDOWS WHEN THE
HISTORIC WINDOWS ARE COMPLETELY
MISSING.
THE REPLACEMENT WINDOWS MAY BE
AN ACCURATE RESTORATION OR A
NEW DESIGN THAT&apos;S COMPATIBLE
WITH THE WINDOW OPENINGS IN THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING.
IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO INSTALL
NEW WINDOWS THAT ARE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE
BUILDING&apos;S HISTORIC APPEARANCE
OR OBSCURED DAMAGE OR DESTROY
CHARACTER BY CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES AND FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS IT IS
APPROPRIATE IF A WINDOW IS
COMPLETELY MISSING TO REPLACE
IT WITH A NEW WINDOW BASED ON
ACCURATE DOCUMENTATION OF THE
ORIGINAL OR A NEW DESIGN
COMPATIBLE WITH THE ORIGINAL
OPENING AND HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING MATERIALS OTHER
THAN WOOD WILL BE REVIEWED BY
THE COMMISSION ON A CASE BY
CASE BASIS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GETTING MORE REQUESTS
LIKE THIS SO I THINK IT&apos;S A
VERY TIMELY MATTER FOR THE HGC
TO TALK ABOUT WOOD WINDOWS.
WE TOUCHED ON IT A COUPLE
OF MONTHS AGO AT ANOTHER
MEETING BUT BEAR IN MIND THAT
THESE ARE NOT THESE ARE NOT
REPLICAS OF THE ORIGINAL
WINDOWS.
THEY&apos;RE JUST REPLACEMENT
WINDOWS THAT STAFF CANNOT
APPROVE BECAUSE I CAN ONLY
APPROVE THINGS MADE OUT OF THE
SAME MATERIALS OR BETTER.
LET&apos;S SEE SINCE THE ORIGINAL
WINDOWS ARE GONE IN THE CURRENT
WINDOWS ARE NOT REPLICAS.
ALL THE WORKERS ON THE
ELEVATION AND THE REPLACEMENT
WINDOWS WOULD NOT NEGATIVELY
IMPACT THE REMAINING CHARACTER
FINDING FEATURE STAFF BELIEVES
REPLACING THIS ASHES OF WOOD
REPLACEMENT WINDOWS WITH THESE
SIMILAR CLOUD REPLACEMENT ASHES
IS APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; THANK THANK YOU MISS
THATCHER.
COMMISSIONERS&apos; FORTNER AND
WILLIS WERE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
CAN YOU GIVE US YOUR REPORT
PLEASE?
I WOULD LIKE TO ADD THAT I
AGREE WITH THE RECOMMENDATIONS
AND I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE A
BEAUTIFUL ENHANCEMENT FOR THE
BACK OF THE BUILDING AND
IMPROVE THE OVERALL STRUCTURE.
NO FURTHER COMMENT.
OK, SO WOULD THE APPLICANT
PLEASE ON YOUR MICROPHONE NOW
HE&apos;S HERE PLEASE COME TO THE
PODIUM.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
YOU&apos;VE GOT FIVE MINUTES TO
COMMENT ON WHAT YOU&apos;VE HEARD
AND THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OH MY NAME IS PETER
BLOCHER&apos;S AND I RESIDE AT
NINETY SIX AND DRIVE.
THANKS MR.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON
WHAT YOU&apos;VE HEARD SO FAR OR YOU
DON&apos;T HAVE TO HAVE ANY
COMMENTS.
YEAH I THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
OF SUBSTANCE.
OK VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU ANY COMMISSIONERS
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT.
&gt;&gt; NO.
OK THANK YOU SO MUCH.
SO NOW WE&apos;RE GOING TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM IF
THERE&apos;S ANYONE HERE OR ON ZUM
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND IF YOU
HAVE ANY COMMENTS FOR THIS
HEARING NOT SEEING ANYONE DO OK
SO WE&apos;LL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WOULD LIKE TO ASK
IF COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THE
APPLICATION.
SURE.
FEEL FREE TO SIT DOWN IF YOU&apos;D
LIKE MR BLOCKHOUSE YOU SIT DOWN
SO YEAH I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION APPROVED THE
APPLICATION AT ONE OH NINE ONE
NINETEEN EAST AND STREET
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTIES IN THE
FOURTH AN HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
REMOVE ALL OF THE NON HISTORIC
WOOD WINDOWS SASHES AND THE
REAR ELEVATION OF THE BUILDING
AND REPLACE THEM WITH ALUMINUM
CLAD WOOD SASH PACKS IN THE
SAME OPENINGS AS PROPOSED BY
THE COMMISSION FINDS THAT THE
WORK MEETS THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR&apos;S STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS AND PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE, NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS
AND THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS SECOND
OK THE MOTION THERE WAS A
MOTION BY COMMISSIONER WILLIS
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITE.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION
?
OK, I THINK THAT I WOULD SAY IN
PARTICULAR BECAUSE THESE
WINDOWS ARE LIKE THE STAFF
REPORT REALLY SUMMARIZED AND
THE LAST POINT THERE, YOU KNOW
THESE WINDOWS ARE AROUND THE
REAR ELEVATION AND THEY&apos;RE NOT
THEY&apos;RE NOT TRYING TO REPLICATE
HISTORIC WINDOWS.
THE HISTORIC WINDOWS ARE NOT
EXISTING RIGHT NOW.
SO I THINK THAT THE USE OF A
CLOUD WINDOW AS OPPOSED TO A
WOOD WINDOW IS NOT REALLY
CAUSING MUCH CASE FOR CONCERN
IN THIS IN THIS PARTICULAR
HEARING HERE.
SO I THINK WE&apos;LL GO TO A VOTE.
I&apos;LL HANDLE THAT.
BOB, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE.
YES.
ALL IN FAVOR OF THIS MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL OPPOSE PLEASE SAY NO.
OK, THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS BEFORE
FROM THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING
YOUR PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YES OK WE&apos;RE GOING TO MOVE ON
NOW TO THE NEXT HEARING.
SHOULD I TALK VERY SLOWLY
DISPATCHER IS THAT OK?
HEARING F FOUR TO TWENTY THREE
STAND STRAIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TWO APPLICATIONS AT
THIS ADDRESS BECAUSE THERE ARE
TWO DIFFERENT CONTRACTORS DOING
DIFFERENT WORK.
THE FIRST IS FOR REPLACEMENT
OF WINDOWS AND THE SECOND IS
FOR REPLACEMENT OF TRIM FOR THE
WINDOWS.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO START OUT
WITH THE WINDOW APPLICATION.
THIS IS THE ARMORY WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN 1911 AND WAS
USED AS AN ARMORY UNTIL THE
EARLY 1990S.
ITS LAST MILITARY OCCUPANT WAS
THE COMPANY D ONE FIFTY SIX
SIGNAL BATTALION.
THE BUILDING HOUSED A DRILL
ROOM READING ROOM BILLIARD
ROOM, THE CAPTAIN&apos;S OFFICE
ORDERLY ROOMS, LOCKER ROOMS AND
AN INDOOR SHOOTING RANGE AND
KITCHEN IN THE BASEMENT.
THE LARGE VAULTED ROOM IN THE
CENTER WAS OFTEN USED FOR
COMMUNITY EVENTS LIKE THE
ANNUAL KAWANA SALE, BOXING
MATCHES AND CONCERTS BUILDING
WAS VACANT FOR SEVERAL YEARS
FROM BEING CONVERTED TO
CONDOMINIUMS BY ED SHEFRIN IN
NINETEEN NINETY SIX.
&gt;&gt; AT THAT TIME THE FCC
APPROVED THE REMOVAL OF A
GARAGE BEHIND THE BUILDING AND
ITS REPLACEMENT WITH A RAMP AND
REPLACEMENT OF NON ORIGINAL
WINDOWS WITH WOOD WINDOWS AND
UPPER STOREY BALCONY ON THE
WEST ELEVATION WAS APPROVED BY
THE DC IN TWENTY SIXTEEN AND
THE SITE IS AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF NORTH FIFTH AVENUE
AND EAST AND STREET.
SO THIS PARTICULAR APPLICATION
IS TO REPLACE TWENTY TWO NON
HISTORIC WOOD WINDOWS WITH
ANDERSON FOUR HUNDRED SERIES
CLAD WINDOWS IN A TRADITIONAL
PROFILE RUNNING THROUGH THE
PHOTOS HERE IS A SUCH A STATELY
BUILDING MY SLIDES WILL CHANGE
.
&gt;&gt; WE GO THIS IS A NINETEEN
THIRTY SIX PHOTO.
THIS IS ONE OF THE CLEAREST
PHOTOS THAT I FOUND WITH THE
OLD WINDOWS YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE SASHES ARE NINE OVER NINE
WITH A SIX PANE TRANSAM ABOVE
AND ALSO THE THE TOPS OF THE
TOWERS FLANKING THE ENTRY ARE
STILL INTACT.
THOSE ARE MISSING TODAY THOUGH
WE DO STILL HAVE THE CORNER
CAPS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE BUILDING
LOOKED QUITE A BIT DIFFERENT
WITH ALL OF THOSE THOSE MANY
PANE WINDOWS.
I THINK THERE ARE SOME MORE
PHOTOS IN THE STAFF REPORT.
I INCLUDED THIS PHOTO FROM
NINETEEN SIXTY JUST TO SHOW A
LITTLE BIT CLOSER UP OF THOSE
WINDOWS THERE&apos;S GREAT
DOCUMENTATION OF THOSE WINDOWS
IF ANYONE IN THE BUILDING WOULD
EVER LIKE TO PUT THEM BACK
THROUGH THE ADL ARCHIVES BUT
THIS WAS ANOTHER PHOTO IN
NINETEEN SEVENTY EIGHT ON THE
RIGHT WHICH SHOWS THAT THOSE
WINDOWS ARE NO LONGER PRESENT
SO SOMETIME IN THAT PERIOD THEY
WERE REPLACED.
THESE ARE SIMPLE OVER ONE
WINDOWS.
THESE ARE MAYBE THE ONES THAT
WERE REPLACED IN NINETEEN
NINETY SIX AGAIN SO WE&apos;RE A
COUPLE OF GENERATIONS AWAY FROM
THE ORIGINAL WINDOWS.
&gt;&gt; THIS APPLICATION IS FOR
TWENTY TWO WINDOWS STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING AND HAS WRITTEN
INTO THE MOTION THAT IF THIS
APPLICATION IS APPROVED IT
SHOULD BE APPLIED TO ALL OF THE
WINDOWS NOT THAT ANYONE HAS TO
REPLACE THEM BUT MOVING FORWARD
IF SOMEONE WANTED TO REPLACE
THEM THAT IT WOULD BE A BLANKET
APPROVAL FOR THE ENTIRE
BUILDING BECAUSE THE LAST THING
YOU WANT IS TWENTY TWO WINDOWS
OF ONE TYPE AND THEN MOVING ON
TO A DIFFERENT STYLE THAT DON&apos;T
MATCH THE BUILDING ALREADY HAS
SEVERAL WINDOWS THAT WERE
REPLACED WITHOUT HGC APPROVAL
THAT OUR CLAD WINDOWS BUT THERE
ARE A LOT OF WINDOWS ON THIS
BUILDING AND THOSE WHEN YOU
WALK BY KIND OF STAND BECAUSE
THEY DON&apos;T REALLY MATCH
EVERYTHING ELSE.
THERE&apos;S A DOCUMENTATION OF ALL
OF THE WINDOWS PROPOSED TO BE
REPLACED AND THEIR UNIT NUMBERS
THIS THERE&apos;S ONE ON THE BACK
THE NORTH ELEVATION IS IT THERE
ARE THREE UNITS THE WEST
ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE LONG WING OR THE
MARCHING ROOM I THINK IT WAS
BEHIND THE TALLER BLOCK THAT
THIS IS THE STREET AND YOU CAN
SEE IT AND THIS PHOTO THAT
THERE IS A LITTLE OF AN
OVERHANG HERE BUT A LOT
OF THESE WINDOWS HAVE VERY
LITTLE PROTECTION FROM THE
ELEMENTS.
THEY ARE VERY EXPOSED AND PARTS
OF THE BUILDING ARE REALLY
EXPOSED.
THERE WERE ROTTED WOOD PHOTOS
IN THE APPLICATION I DON&apos;T SEE
THE PHOTO THAT I WANTED.
SO THESE WINDOWS FROM THE
NINETIES ARE IN POOR SHAPE.
THE PROPOSALS TO REPLACE THEM
WITH ANDERSON WINDOWS.
THIS IS A FOUR HUNDRED SERIES I
BELIEVE IS ALUMINUM CLAD
ACTUALLY NO.
I THINK IT&apos;S THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S IN
THE STAFF REPORT.
WELL I&apos;LL SEE IF I CAN FIND
THAT.
&gt;&gt; SECOND, I BELIEVE THE STAFF
REPORTS ON VINYL STAFF VERSUS
THE PROFILES HAVE BEEN PROVIDED
THAT ALSO IN THE MOTION IS A
CONDITION THAT THE WINDOW GLASS
BE INSTALLED AND THE SAME PLANE
THAT IT&apos;S AT CURRENTLY SO THAT
THE WINDOWS DON&apos;T GET TOO CLOSE
TO THE STREET OR TOO FAR BACK.
I WOULD IMAGINE THESE ARE
PRETTY THICK WALLS SO THAT WE
AT LEAST KEEP IT THAT LOOK FROM
THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS I&apos;VE READ TO YOU
NUMBER TO NINE AND TEN ALREADY
AND I THINK I&apos;VE READ MANY
OF THESE WINDOW REPLACEMENT
GUIDELINES.
LET ME SEE IF THERE ARE ANY
THAT I&apos;VE MISSED.
THIS IS SORT OF THE SAME
SITUATION AS THE LAST ONE BUT
THEY&apos;RE NOT ON THE BACK OF THE
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE NOT HISTORIC
WINDOWS.
THEY&apos;RE NOT REPLICAS
OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS BUT THEY
ARE YOU KNOW, THEY&apos;RE TAKING A
STEP UP HERE AND VISIBILITY
.
YEAH.
AND THESE ARE ALL OF THE SAME
GUIDELINES THAT I&apos;VE READ TO
YOU ON THE LAST APPLICATION.
SO LET&apos;S GET OUT OF HERE
.
I ACTUALLY KIND OF PREFER VINYL
TO ALUMINUM CLAD WINDOWS OFTEN
BECAUSE THE THE ALUMINUM CLOUD
GET VERY FLAT AND IT&apos;S
ALUMINUM.
YOU KNOW, BEN&apos;S PRETTY WELL BUT
VINYL BENDS A LOT BETTER AND
SOMETIMES YOU GET A LITTLE BIT
MORE TRADITIONAL PROFILE THAT
WAY.
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES DO SAY THAT IF USING
THE SAME KIND OF MATERIALS IS
NOT TECHNICALLY OR ECONOMICALLY
FEASIBLE, THEN A COMPATIBLE
SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL MAY BE
CONSIDERED.
AND IN THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES IT
SAYS THE MATERIALS OTHER THAN
WOOD WILL BE REVIEWED BY THE
COMMISSION ON A CASE BY CASE
BASIS.
SO HERE WE ARE TODAY.
&gt;&gt; I DO BELIEVE THAT THE
REPLACEMENT OF THESE WINDOWS
WITH WITH THE PROPOSED
ANDERSSEN FOUR HUNDRED SERIES
IS APPROPRIATE.
THERE&apos;S NO HISTORIC PRECEDENT.
THE SASHAYS WILL LOOK VERY
CLOSE TO WHAT IS THERE NOW AND
WOULD BE MORE DESIRABLE TO HAVE
A UNIFORM LOOK IN THE BUILDING
.
IT WOULD TAKE SOME TIME
OBVIOUSLY BUT THIS IS A GOOD
PLACE TO START.
I THINK THESE ARE A PRETTY
DECENT QUALITY WINDOW TO DO IT
.
I DID HAVE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
HAD A QUESTION AND ABOUT THE
AMOUNT OF GLASS AND IF THE THE
AMOUNT OF GLASS WOULD BE
STAYING THE SAME OR INCREASING
OR DECREASING AND WHEN WE GET
THE APPLICANT ON DUTY SHE SAID
THAT SHE WOULD BE PREPARED TO
ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
SO WE&apos;LL GET TO THAT.
THAT&apos;S IT FOR ME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MISS THATCHER.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO COMMISSIONERS FORTNER
AND WILLIS WERE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
LET&apos;S HEAR YOUR REPORT.
YEAH, I HAVE TO AGREE WITH
STAFF THAT CERTAINLY A UNIFORM
WINDOW WILL BE AN IMPROVEMENT
OF THE TO CONSIDER THERE NOW
AND THESE WINDOWS WERE YOU
KNOW, BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE HIGHLY
VISIBLE.
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE ALSO VERY EXPOSED TO
THE ELEMENTS AND SO I COULD SEE
THAT THIS IS A GOOD SITUATION
FOR THE CLOUD WINDOWS.
I AGREE.
OK, VERY GOOD WITH THE APPLE IS
THE APPLICANT HERE NOW SO THE
APPLICANT IS ON ZOOME AND SO
WOULD YOU PLEASE THERE YOU GO.
I&apos;M YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON
YOUR VIDEO.
YOU&apos;VE ALREADY DONE THAT.
THANK YOU.
PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND LET
US KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANY
COMMENTS FROM WHAT YOU&apos;VE HEARD
SO FAR YOU&apos;RE JUDITH ROSSI.
OH LET ME PUT THIS
IT&apos;S TWO TO
THREE AND THREE.
&gt;&gt; OK, DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS
?
JUDITH?
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY COMMENTS.
I DO WANT TO SAY THAT THE NEW
WINDOWS WERE PROPOSING TO
PURCHASE OUR PERIOD CLASSICS IN
OUR THE CLOSEST THAT WE CAN
FIND THAT WOULD MATCH THE
BUILDING WITH HISTORICAL
INTEGRITY.
THE BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
LOOKS LIKE WE ALSO HAVE SOMEONE
ELSE HERE.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU WANT TO STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS BACK ON SEVEN
CENTS ON THE CLOCK TO JACKSON,
MICHIGAN?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M A CONTRACTOR THAT&apos;S
GOING TO BE PUTTING IN THE
WINDOWS.
OK, SO ANY COMMENTS, BEN?
&gt;&gt; NO, NONE AT THIS
.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO COMMISSIONERS, ANY QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANTS?
YEAH, THE QUESTION ABOUT THE
RIGHT THE COMPARISON OF THE
SIZE OF THE GLASS BETWEEN THE
OLD AND THE NEW WILL THE YOU
KNOW, THE DAYLIGHT WILL BE THE
SAME CHIME IN HERE.
THAT&apos;S FINE.
I CHECKED MEASUREMENTS OF THE
SASHES WITH THE WITH THE
ORIGINAL EXISTING WINDOWS AND
WITH THE NEW WINDOWS THAT WE&apos;RE
PROPOSING TO PURCHASE AND THEY
ARE VERY SIMILAR IN SIZE.
&gt;&gt; SO GLASSPIEGEL SURFACE AREA
WILL NOT CHANGE.
THERE MAY BE ADDITIONAL CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;LL BE VERY SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE HAVE THERE NOW BUT IT
WON&apos;T BE ANY I SEE LARGER NOW
IT&apos;LL BE VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT&apos;S
THERE NOW IT&apos;S IT&apos;S RIDICULOUS.
&gt;&gt; I JUDY I DON&apos;T HAVE THE
EXACT MEASUREMENTS IN FRONT
OF ME BUT I I KNOW YEAH THEY&apos;RE
PRETTY MUCH SAME FOR SAY SO
I&apos;LL THANK YOU FOR THAT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; NO.
OK OK SO WE&apos;LL NOW OPEN A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM SO
ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE TO TO
SPEAK ON THIS ITEM ON ZOOME
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND NOBODY
NO ONE HERE SO WE WILL CLOSE A
PUBLIC HEARING AND I&apos;LL ASK IF
THERE&apos;S A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
PLEASE.
COMMISSIONER WERNER, I BELIEVE
THAT THE COMMISSION APPROVED
THE APPLICATION AT TWO TO THREE
E AND STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REPLACE
ANY EXISTING WINDOWS WITH THE
PROPOSED ANDERSON 400 SERIES
CLAD WINDOWS IN THE TRADITIONAL
PROFILE ON THE CONDITION THAT
THE SASHES ARE INSTALLED SO THE
PLANE OF THE NEW GLASS MATCHES
THE PLANE OF THE EXISTING
GLASS.
THE COMMISSION FINDS THE WORK
THAT FINDS THAT THE WORK MEETS
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR TO NINE AND 10 AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR THE WINDOWS
AND THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS SUPPORT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT IS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
OK, I HAD A QUESTION IF YOU
COULD JUST EXPLAIN.
&gt;&gt; SO THE STANDARD SAY THAT
THAT WOULD WINDOWS WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE AND THEN OTHER
MATERIALS ARE CASE BY CASE
BASIS.
SO SO WHY ARE YOU PROPOSING THE
VINYL CLAD WINDOWS?
&gt;&gt; OH, I CAN ANSWER THAT OUR
WINDOWS ARE EXPOSED TO THE
ELEMENTS QUITE A BIT AND BOTH
THE EAST AND WEST SIDE COLUMN
AND GARROTED IN THE WE WANT A
WINDOWS THAT WILL BE LONG
LASTING AND ALSO ENERGY
EFFICIENT AND THAT&apos;S PRETTY
MUCH WHAT PEOPLE ARE USING NOW
AND WE DON&apos;T WANT TO HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THIS IN ANOTHER FIVE OR
SIX YEARS ALSO ABOUT THE CLOUD
AND OTHER TYPES OF COMPOSITE
MATERIAL DO NOT REQUIRE
PAINTING SO WE JUST WANT TO
REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF MAINTENANCE ON THOSE WINDOWS
AND JUST HAVE A BETTER LOOK AND
LESS PROBLEMS WITH THEM IN THE
FUTURE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
IS THAT TRADE A QUESTION FOR
YOU?
&gt;&gt; YES.
IN THE MOTION WE ARE SAYING TO
MATCH THE MATCH WHERE THE
EXISTING THE PLAIN OF THE GLASS
AS WE SAY.
YEAH.
CAN WE LOOK AT A FEW PHOTOS
BECAUSE IT SEEMED LIKE ARE THEY
I&apos;M WONDERING IF THEY&apos;RE ALL
THE SAME AND AND ARE WE SAYING
IS IT CLEAR THAT WE&apos;RE SAYING
TO MATCH IT AT WINDOW FOR
WINDOW OR IS THERE IT ALMOST
LOOKS LIKE SOME OF THEM WERE
LIKE MOUNTED FLUSH WITH THE
EXTERIOR OF THE BRICK WHICH IS
A REALLY NOT WHERE YOU WANT A
WINDOW.
&gt;&gt; YEAH RIGHT.
THOSE WHY ARE THEY ALL
INSTALLED LIKE THAT?
&gt;&gt; THAT LOOKS WRONG TO ME.
FLUSH YEAH THEY&apos;RE INSTALLED
FLUSH AS OPPOSED TO INSET AND
THAT&apos;S WHY YOU HAVE ROTTED
WINDOWS.
WELL THAT AND NO OVERHANG BUT
BUT THOSE WINDOWS SHOULD BE IN
LEAPING AND PUT IN THE NEW ONES
AND WE&apos;VE SET BACK A LITTLE BIT
AS FAR AS I THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
THE WAY THEY ARE RIGHT.
TRIM AROUND THE WINDOW.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE REPLACED AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S LOOK AT A HISTORIC
PHOTO TO SEE WHAT CAN I BORROW.
ABSOLUTELY.
IT IT APPEARS IT APPEARS TO ME
THAT MOST THE MAJORITY OF THE
WINDOWS IN THE BUILDING I
LOOKED AT WHATEVER THE WINDOWS
WERE REPLACED FROM THE ORIGINAL
WINDOWS THEY WERE THEY ALL SEEM
TO BE INSTALLED IN THAT SIMILAR
FASHION WITH THE OUTSIDE BRICK
MOLD ALL THE WAY OUT TO THE
SURFACE OF THE BRICK.
AND YOU ARE CORRECT, THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S KIND OF UNUSUAL.
BUT BUT ALSO THE THE SASH IS
THAMMASAT ARE ARE CLAD AND
THAT&apos;S TYPICALLY AN IMPROVEMENT
OVER OVER JUST UNCLAD WOOD
WINDOWS.
WE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S UNCLAD WOOD
WINDOWS ARE NOTORIOUS DIFFICULT
TO MAINTAIN AND AND REGARDLESS
OF WHERE THEY ARE THEY
TYPICALLY END UP ROTTING AT
SOME POINT THAT THIS CLOUD
WINDOWS NOW IN THE FIRST PLACE
.
BUT AS FAR AS THE THE DESIGN
OF THE WINDOWS THEMSELVES, IT
SHOULD BE ALMOST IDENTICAL TO
WHAT IS THERE AND ESPECIALLY
THE SASH PROFILE IHL AND THE
MEETING RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
SHOULD BE IN THE MIDDLE AS THE
EXISTING WINDOWS ARE.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO TO ME THIS IS KIND
OF CONFUSING WHERE WE&apos;RE SAYING
WELL NOT IN THE WRONG SPOT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
AND I&apos;M SAYING WRONG BECAUSE
NORMALLY WE WOULD HAVE AN
EXISTING WINDOW THAT&apos;S INSET
AND WE WANT THEM TO KEEP THAT
INSET WINDOW BECAUSE THAT IS
LIKE THE HISTORIC LOOK AND
THAT&apos;S WHERE YEAH IT LOOKS
CORRECT IN A STORE BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH.
BUT I SUPPOSE ASKING THEM TO DO
IT IN THIS CASE THEY&apos;RE JUST
GOING TO DO IT ANYWAY BECAUSE
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE LIKE ALL THE
INTERIOR TRIM IS GOING TO
RIGHT.
MESS UP IF THAT&apos;S RIGHT NOT TO
DO ANYTHING ELSE.
OK I JUST WANTED TO TALK
THROUGH THAT.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS THAT WILL
WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO TO A VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED.
OK, THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY
FOR REQUIRED PERMITS.
THANK YOU.
OK THE NEXT HEARING F5 SAME
ADDRESS TO TWENTY THREE E
STREET.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT NOW WE&apos;RE MOVING
ON TO THE WINDOW TRIM WHICH
YOU&apos;VE ALREADY SEEN SOME
PICTURES OF ROTTING AWAY
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT GOING TO REPEAT ALL
THE PHOTOS AGAIN BUT THE ROOM&apos;S
JUST A MESS.
IT&apos;S PINE, IT&apos;S PAINTED, IT&apos;S
BEEN MAINTAINED AND IT&apos;S JUST
NOT HOLDING UP WELL.
SO INSTEAD OF INSTALLING NEW
WOOD TRIM, THE APPLICANT IS
HERE TO UP AGAINST TO USE A
COMPOSITE MATERIAL LIKE ISAAC
AND TO GET THE OTHER GOT THE
WRONG STAFF REPORT HERE SO THEY
WISH TO REPLACE THE
DETERIORATED PINE TRIM WITH A
TRIM AND MATCHING DIMENSIONS
BECAUSE THIS IS A CHANGE
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS.
STAFF CAN&apos;T IMPROVE IT SO WE&apos;RE
HERE BEFORE YOU TODAY.
ONE OF THESE IS A AND ONE
OF THESE IS WOOD AND I DON&apos;T
HAVE IT WRITTEN DOWN SO I CAN&apos;T
TELL YOU WHICH IS WORKING BUT
FROM THIS PHOTO THEY&apos;RE PRETTY
DARN CLOSE.
I BELIEVE THAT YES.
ONE OF OUR APPLICANTS IS HERE
AND HAS BROUGHT SOME WILL GET
TO YOU IN JUST ONE SECOND MARK
AZTEK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S USED
PRETTY COMMONLY THESE DAYS NOT
GENERALLY ON HISTORIC BUILDINGS
.
THE HGC DOES OCCASIONALLY
APPROVE THINGS THAT ARE
COMPOSITE MATERIALS OR
FIBERGLASS.
THIS HAS HAPPENED A FEW TIMES
WITH THINGS LIKE PORCH COLUMNS
BECAUSE THEY HAVE A PERSISTENT
WATER PROBLEM OR OTHER TRIM
THAT THAT AGAIN IT&apos;S USUALLY
BECAUSE OF WATER.
WATER IS THE ENEMY OF WOOD AND
IT&apos;S NOT GENERALLY CONSIDERED
APPROPRIATE TO USE COMPOSITE
MATERIALS TO USE OTHER
MATERIALS THAN HISTORIC ONES
BUT IT&apos;S BEING REQUESTED HERE
AND THEY DO HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
WATER AND WE&apos;VE NOW DETERMINED
WHY THANKS TO MR RACHLIN FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR
STANDARDS, I&apos;VE ALREADY READ
TWO NUMBERS TO NINE TEN FROM
THE GUIDELINES FOR WOOD REPAIR.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO REPAIR WOOD
FEATURES BY PATCHING, PIECING
IN CONSOLIDATING OR OTHERWISE
REINFORCING THE WOOD USING
RECOGNIZED PRESERVATION
METHODS, REPAIR.
I ALSO INCLUDE THE LIMITED
REPLACEMENT IN KIND OR WOOD
COMPATIBLE SUITABLE MATERIAL
OF THOSE EXTENSIVELY
DETERIORATED OR MISSING PARTS
OF FEATURES OR ARE SURVIVING
PROTOTYPES SUCH AS BRACKETT&apos;S
MOLDING OR SECTIONS OF SIDING
NOT RECOMMENDED AS USING
SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL FOR THE
REPLACEMENT THAT DOES NOT
CONVEY THE VISUAL APPEARANCE
OF THE SURVIVING PARTS OF THE
WOOD FEATURE OR THAT IS
PHYSICALLY OR CHEMICALLY
INCOMPATIBLE FROM THE NRA
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS IT&apos;S NOT
APPROPRIATE TO WRAP EXTERIOR
WOOD TO TRIM IN ALUMINUM VINYL.
THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT WE&apos;RE ASKING
FOR HERE.
I JUST WANTED TO REFRESH YOUR
MEMORY ON THAT ONE AND IT IS
APPROPRIATE TO REPLACE MISSING
FEATURES WITH ELEMENTS BASED ON
DOCUMENTATION OF THE ORIGINAL
FEATURE WHICH WE&apos;RE NOT REALLY
DOING HERE OR WITH A NEW DESIGN
THAT&apos;S COMPATIBLE IN SCALE SIZE
MATERIAL AND TEXTURE WITH THE
HISTORIC BUILDING AND DISTRICT
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE TO USE
SUBSTITUTE MATERIALS TO
COVER OR REPLACE WOOD SIDING,
SHINGLES, TRIM AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
SO THESE GUIDELINES ARE KIND
OF ALL OVER THE PLACE.
IT&apos;S BEST TO KEEP WOOD IF YOU
CAN BUT IF THERE&apos;S A PROBLEM
THAT&apos;S WHEN WE BRING TO THE
COMMISSION AND ASK YOU IF IT IS
APPROPRIATE.
SO STAFF BELIEVES THAT APPLYING
THE STANDARDS GUIDELINES COMES
DOWN TO COMPATIBILITY WITH THE
BUILDING AND DISTRICT SPECIFIC
FROM THE DESIGN GUIDELINES
REPLACING MISSING FEATURES WITH
ELEMENTS BASED ON DOCUMENTATION
OF THE ORIGINAL OR A NEW DESIGN
THAT&apos;S COMPATIBLE IN SIZE SCALE
MATERIAL AND TEXTURE.
SO IF YOU THINK THAT IT IS
COMPATIBLE THEN IT IS AN
APPROVABLE APPLICATION IF YOU
THINK THAT ISAAC IS NOT AN
APPROPRIATE CHOICE AND I&apos;M
SORRY I DON&apos;T HAVE EXAMPLES
OF WHERE IT HAS BEEN INSTALLED
BECAUSE USUALLY IT&apos;S SUCH IT&apos;S
A VERY MINOR PART OF A PROJECT
LIKE MAYBE THE BASE OF A COLUMN
THAT STANDS IN WATER OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO I DON&apos;T HAVE A LOT
OF EXPERIENCE WITH IT BUT IT IS
A POINT IN ITS FAVOR THAT THE
WINDOW TRIM IS NOT ORIGINAL AND
IT&apos;S NOT BASED ON ANY HISTORIC
PRECEDENT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT CONCLUDES THAT
REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MISS ATURE
COMMISSIONERS&apos; FORTNER AND
WILLIS.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S HEAR YOUR REPORT
PLEASE.
I AGREE WITH THE RECOMMENDATION
INSTEAD BECAUSE THE TRIM AND
THE WINDOWS ARE NOT ORIGINAL
THAT THIS MATERIAL WOULD I
THINK BE A BATTERY PLACEMENT
AND FOR WOULD IN INSTANCES LIKE
THIS I&apos;D BE INTERESTED TO SEE,
YOU KNOW, IT ALL COMES DOWN TO
IS IT GOING TO LOOK THE SAME?
YEAH.
SO IF WE CAN SEE THE EXAMPLES
VERY GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ARE YOU THE APPLICANT?
YES.
OK, AND I SEE THAT WE HAVE
JUDITH AND BEN STILL ON THE
LINE SO CAN YOU COME TO THE
PODIUM, STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS BEFORE YOU SHOW US THE
THE SHOW AND TELL THAT YOU
BROUGHT SO UNMARKED BY OTHERS
ADDRESSES TWO ONE THREE BIG ST.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN FOUR I ONE
TO FOUR AND I&apos;M PROPOSING TO
REPLACE THE WOOD TRIM THE
ROTTED WOOD TRIM WITH THIS PVC
ALTERNATIVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MARK.
AND YOU&apos;VE BROUGHT IN THE PVC
THAT&apos;S PVC.
YEAH THAT&apos;S WOOD.
&gt;&gt; ARE THEY BOTH WHAT WHAT DO
YOU GOT THERE?
WHY DON&apos;T YOU LET US KNOW WHAT
IS A PINE WE SOME ON THERE
RIGHT YOU&apos;VE GOT THE PINE AND
THAT ROTTED EXTENSIVELY YOU CAN
FEEL FLIMSINESS OF THE MATERIAL
WHEN WATER GETS IN THERE IT&apos;S
ONLY AROUND ON THE OUTSIDE IT&apos;S
NOT TREATED THEY DON&apos;T MAKE
ENTREATED BARIUM SO WHEN WATER
GETS INSIDE IT ACTUALLY ROTS
FROM THE INSIDE OUT AND THAT&apos;S
WHY IT LASTED ONLY TWENTY YEARS
RATHER THAN THIS WHICH IS A PVC
MATERIAL AND THEY&apos;RE IDENTICAL
TRIM AND THIS IS RATED TO LAST
ALMOST THIRTY.
&gt;&gt; DOES THIS NEED TO BE
PAINTED?
YES, THIS IS PAINTED
CAPACITY&apos;S
MARK.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS?
YEAH, I HAVE A QUESTION MARK I
SURE YEAH.
BECAUSE THEN THE MICROPHONE
WILL PICK UP YOUR COMMENT SO
CAN YOU ADDRESS I JUST HAVE A
CONCERN ABOUT THE JOINTS THAT
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE HERE IF
YOU HAVE FOUR PIECES OF PVC
WRAPPED AROUND IT&apos;S MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT THERMAL
CONTRACTION IN PVC IS QUITE BIG
FROM WINTER TO SUMMER.
&gt;&gt; AND SO HOW DO YOU HOW YOU
MITIGATE THAT OR ARE WE GOING
TO HAVE JUST BIG JOINTS AT THE
CORNERS OR YOU KNOW, WHAT IS IT
GOING TO LOOK LIKE AT THE
JOINTS?
&gt;&gt; OK, SO ACTUALLY THE WOOD THE
PINE WILL HAVE A SIMILAR EFFECT
OF THE EXPANSION AND
CONTRACTION AND WHEN WE CREATE
WHEN WE CREATE THOSE CORNERS WE
WILL LEAVE A LITTLE BIT OF AN
EXPANSION GAP WAS SEALED WITH A
SPECIAL TALKING AGENT THAT
EXPANDS CONTRACTS WITH THE
DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO LIKE THERE WON&apos;T BE
AN OPEN JOINT, THEY&apos;LL BE
THERE.
IT&apos;LL BE INVISIBLE BASICALLY.
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY TO ARE THERE OTHER
KINDS OF WOOD BESIDES PINE THAT
GOT IN THE MOLD?
&gt;&gt; THEY ONLY HAD PINE MOLD
OF THAT THAT KIND OF THAT SHAPE
AND SIZE.
&gt;&gt; YOU COULD GET SOMETHING
CUSTOM CUT NEXT THING THE
LIFE
IS LONG FOR THIS THE IS THAT
THE PVC THERE.
YES YES.
MUCH LONGER
.
&gt;&gt; WE STILL HAVE JUDITH AND BEN
HERE.
DO YOU GUYS HAVE ANY COMMENTS
AT THIS POINT THAT YOU&apos;D LIKE
TO MAKE URBANIZE.
I DO NOT.
THANK YOU.
OK MARK ANYTHING ELSE YOU&apos;LL
HAVE ANOTHER CHANCE OK YOU ARE
GOOD FOR GOOD RIGHT NOW OK OK
COMMISSIONERS&apos; ANY MORE
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; NO OK SO I NOW LIKE TO OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK ON THIS ITEM.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE ANYONE WHO&apos;D LIKE
TO SPEAK?
NO ONE IS PRESENT NO ONE
PRESENT OK SO NOW I WILL CLOSE
A PUBLIC HEARING AND I&apos;LL ASK
IF A COMMISSIONER COULD PLEASE
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION.
YOU CAN TAKE
I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION APPROVED THE
APPLICATION AT 223 EAST AND
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO REPLACE THE
DETERIORATED PINE TRIM
INSTALLED IN NINETEEN NINETY
SIX WITH ASCENDENT TRIM AND
MATCHING DIMENSION&apos;S AS
PROPOSED.
THE COMMISSION FINDS THAT THE
WORK MEETS THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR&apos;S STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATE OPTION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
PARTICULAR STANDARDS TO NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS AND WOOD REPAIR AND THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
WINDOWS AND WOOD SIDING TRIM
AND ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS.
&gt;&gt; SECOND OK THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WILLIS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
IS OR ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
NO.
&gt;&gt; OK WELL YEAH I WOULD SAY
THAT IT DOES SEEM LIKE IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE I MEAN I HAVE A
CONCERN ABOUT USING THE
MATERIAL BUT I WOULD SAY TWO
THINGS ONE BRINGING THE
MATERIAL IN WAS WAS QUITE
HELPFUL TO SEE IT IN PERSON AND
IT&apos;S A VERY CLOSE IF NOT EXACT
REPLICA OF WHAT IS THERE RIGHT
NOW AND JUST IN THIS PARTICULAR
CASE WITH WITH THE WITH THE
RODDING WOOD ISSUE, IT WOULD
SORT OF BE IT WOULD IT WOULD BE
UNREASONABLE TO TO REPLACE WITH
WOOD AND JUST DETERIORATE AGAIN
AND IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO CHANGE I
GUESS THE THE JUST HOW THE
WATER IS GOING TO BE HITTING
THAT THOSE WINDOWS AND THE
WINDOW TRIM BY INSERTING THEM
OR FLASHING THEM OR SOMETHING
THAT AND I GUESS CHANGING THE
MATERIAL IS IS APPROPRIATE IN
THIS CASE.
SO WE&apos;LL GO TO ABOUT ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANKS.
&gt;&gt; SHOOTING MARK AND THEN SO
WE&apos;RE MOVING ON NOW THAT WAS
OUR LAST HEARINGS OR MOVING ON
TO NEW BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T SEE ANY NEW BUSINESS
SO WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO H APPROVAL
THE MINUTES THOSE CAME OUT
QUITE LATE IN THE DAY HERE.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF ANYONE ACTUALLY
HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT THEM.
&gt;&gt; DID ANYONE PERUSE THEM?
I THINK WE GOT AROUND SIX OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; SHOULD WE APPROVE THEM
ANYWAY OR SHOULD WE LOOK DID
YOU GUYS TAKE A LOOK OK?
I WASN&apos;T ABLE TO.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, I DID I BUT IF WE&apos;VE IF
WE&apos;VE HAD SOMEONE TAKE A LOOK
AND THERE&apos;S NO COMMENTS THEN
OK, SO WITH NO COMMENTS WE CAN
APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM JUNE
9TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO MOVING ON
TO AI REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
&gt;&gt; ANY REPORTS YOU KNOW LET&apos;S
GO TO ASSIGNMENT&apos;S DISPATCHER.
THIS IS FOR MONDAY AUGUST EIGHT
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
THE MEETING IS THURSDAY, AUGUST
ELEVEN.
JENNIFER ROSS HAS ALREADY
VOLUNTEERED TO BE ONE OF THE
PARTICIPANTS WOULD ANYONE ELSE
BE INTERESTED IN JOINING HER?
IT&apos;S FIVE PM AND IF WE DON&apos;T
HAVE ANOTHER PERSON I&apos;LL PUT
OUT A CALL TO THE OTHER TWO
MEMBERS THAT ARE NOT HERE
TONIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
I WILL DO THAT.
I CAN&apos;T COMMIT IF YOU DON&apos;T GET
ANYBODY.
OK, OK I&apos;LL USE A BETTER RATE.
THANK YOU.
OK NOW WE&apos;LL GO ON TO THE
REPORTS FROM STAFF ITEM K I
WILL LET YOU GUYS KNOW THAT I
WILL NOT BE HERE FOR THE NEXT
MEETING.
I&apos;LL BE ON VACATION THAT WEEK
AND MATT KOWALSKI WHO WILL BE
HERE IN MY STEAD HE&apos;LL BE
TAKING THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
AROUND AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T HAVE A GOOD SENSE
OF HOW MANY APPLICATIONS THERE
WILL BE BUT I DON&apos;T THINK IT
WILL BE OVERWHELMING.
I ONLY KNOW OF ONE FOR SURE SO
FAR
TWO TO FOUR SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER THING IS I HAD
ANOTHER REQUEST THIS WEEK FOR A
COMMERCIAL BUILDING TO REPLACE
WOODWIND THAT ARE NOT ORIGINAL
ON THE BACK ALLEY SIDE OF A
BUILDING WITH CLUB WINDOWS.
SO I&apos;M WONDERING IF YOU WANT TO
KEEP REVIEWING THESE OR IF THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT YOU WOULD
FEEL COMFORTABLE MAKING A STAFF
APPROVAL FOR NON REPLICA
WINDOWS RECOGNIZE GOING BACK?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
IN THE BACK.
YEAH, NEVER IN THE FRONT BUT IF
IT&apos;S IN THE I THINK I WOULD I
WOULD WRITE IT UP AS THEY WOULD
HAVE TO BE IN THE BACK THEY
HAVE TO BE NOT ORIGINAL THEY
HAVE TO BE NON REPLICA AND YOU
GUYS THINK YOU&apos;RE COMFORTABLE
THAT HERE YOU&apos;LL HAVE TO DECIDE
RIGHT NOW BECAUSE I HAVE TO
BRING IT BACK TO ADD BUT YEAH
THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO TO
REVIEW SOMETHING THAT YOU PUT
TOGETHER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH YEAH WE CAN BUT I
JUST I DON&apos;T WANT TO GO FORWARD
IF YOU&apos;RE GOING OH NO.
&gt;&gt; YES.
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;LL TAKE A LOOK AT THAT.
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S IT FOR REPORTS FROM
STAFF.
VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; OK ITEM NO CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS ARE THERE ANY
CONCERNS.
&gt;&gt; OH VERY GOOD.
I AM COMMUNICATIONS I THINK
THAT WE&apos;VE HAD SEVERAL
COMMUNICATIONS BUT I BELIEVE WE
HAD ONE THAT WAS NOT REGARDING
THE HAYDEN HOUSE ISN&apos;T THAT
RIGHT?
IT WAS REGARDING THE CORNER
PERHAPS ABOUT BUILDING.
OH YES.
THERE WAS I&apos;M SORRY I DON&apos;T
HAVE IT WITH ME BUT THERE WAS
ONE LETTER THAT CAME IN LAST
MONTH THAT I CANNOT PARAPHRASE
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T HAVE IT IN
FRONT OF ME.
&gt;&gt; IT BASICALLY WAS IN SUPPORT
OF PUTTING IN A ROOFTOP EDITION
ON THAT BUILDING BUT THEN ALSO
SAID I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU HAVE
YOUR YOUR THINGS THAT YOU HAVE
TO CONSIDER AS A COMMISSION
SORT OF STANCE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S IN
YOUR ELECTRONIC PACKETS.
BOB, IF YOU DIDN&apos;T PRINT OUT
OF THAT I CAN PRINT YOU WANT IF
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO BE OK WITH IT OK
THEN AND I BELIEVE THAT BRINGS
US TO ADJOURNMENT.
I NOW ADJOURNED THE JULY
FOURTEENTH TWENTY TWENTY TWO
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU